Consulting engineers are highly skilled professionals who are specialized in project planning, design and management. They provide their expertise to various public and private engineering projects. They provide their clients with subject matter advice and evaluates the project design.
The skills required for being a good consulting engineers are: organizing skill and time management to ensure timely completion and effective monitoring of the project. Communication skills to understand the clients’ requirements and communicate it to the team. Computer knowledge to create complex designs and easy change in designs. Problems solving skills to troubleshoot and analyze the challenges that may appear during the project and technical skills specialized in their respective field.
The benefits of being a consulting engineer are: chance to participate in all stages of a projects from beginning to end. This career also offers developments and learning opportunities as all projects are different from one another. The role of consulting engineer changes from time to time thus providing a fast paced and ever-changing environment. 
The moral code of conduct that should be followed by consulting engineers are: responsibility to society and ensure that they uphold the dignity of the firm they are working for. They should also provide all services with integrity and faithfulness. They should be impartial in their judgment and advice they provide. Neither accepting nor offering bribe that may influence the decision making of consulting engineers judgment. They should focus more on quality of the decision and selections that they take rather than trying to injure the reputation of the client or firm in pursuit personal interest.
Consulting engineers are trusted and respected in various field for the quality decision they make that shape the projects pursued by governments or companies around the world. Consulting engineers should follow the code of conducts to provide quality and reliable service to the client, in doing so they are able to prove their accountability to the clients and earn respect in social as well as professional life.
